---
title: Network Team Update
slug: 2022-11-09-network
authors: coot
tags: [network]
hide_table_of_contents: false
---

## Network Quarterly Update
## 2022-09 - 2022-11

### Summary of most important improvements

During this quarter the networking team delivered low level specification of
peer sharing & eclipse evasion.  We held a session with the consensus & the
scientists; we got a positive feedback on the design.

Further we focused on implementation of peer sharing.  We produced a [detail
design][peer-sharing-design] and an [early implementation][peer-sharing-pr].

We prepared the _P2P Single Relay Release_ (`cardano-node-1.35.5`).  It
includes over [130 patches][p2p-release] of network stack improvements over the
previous version `1.35.4`, which were accomplished over a longer period of
time.  Among them are both bug fixes and UX improvements for stake pool
operators like simplified format of the [topology file][topology-file], or
improvements in the logged messages:

* [tracing of early consensus exceptions][consensus-startup-trace]
* [tracing of demotion of local root peers][demotion-trace] (traced with
  `Warning` severity), the trace is called `TraceDemoteLocalAsynchronous`, in
  `json` format it is encoded as `DemoteLocalAsynchronous`.  For an SPO
  tracking these demotion is vital (such demotion could indicate that a block
  producer is no longer connected to its relays or vice versa)

We also provide better integration with [systemd][socket-activation] (socket
activation improvements) or improvements in the networking stack:

* [exit policies][exit-policy],
* [peer metrics improvements][peer-metrics],
* [DNS TTL][dns-ttl] improvements (which make it harder to misconfigure the
  system, an issue discovered by the performance & monitoring team),
* do not trigger inbound idle timeout for `node-to-client` connections ([pr
  #3844][idle-timeout]), an issue reported to us by Matthias Benkort from
  Cardano Foundation.

Duncan has been making progress with the input endorsers demo. His simulation
provides a useful animated visualisation and live quantification of behaviour
of the modeled design.

We also improved our e2e diffusion simulation by implementing header-body
split, similar to what the real implementation does.

We also made some advances towards our future goals of P2P release for block
producer nodes ([pr #3800][pr-3800] - in review) & for Daedalus users
([pr #3690][pr-3690] - merged).

### Detailed log

* We expanded diffusion simulation with block-fetch protocol bringing it closer
  to the production system.

* We addressed some additional technical depth in diffusion simulation

* We slightly improved documentation & CI of io-sim and typed-protocols
  repositories for open-source contributors.

* We closed a number of issues towards publishing io-sim on Hackage (only two
  essential issues are left open).

* We pushed a branch of typed-protocols which captures one of the developer UX
  problems in the API which we need to solve.

* We identified and fixed an issue related to systemd sockets.

* We identified and fixed an issue in consensus initialisation not giving
  feedback on early errors.

* We deployed RT View, identified a number of issues which were communicated to
  the performance & monitoring team.

* We finished high level & detailed design of peer sharing, very early
  implementation of peer sharing is done (note that peer sharing cannot be
  safely deployed without eclipse evasion & genesis).

* We finished high level design of eclipse evasion, and started working on
  a detailed design.

* We were assigned the role of release engineer for 1.35.5 release (the P2P
  single relay release); we prepared a cardano-node for 1.35.5 release which
  contains more than 130 patches of just network stack improvements done over
  last few months.

* We diagnosed and fixed an tricky bug in the peer state actions (a component
  which sits between outbound governor and connection manager). That bug was
  introduced earlier this year and never released. It was caught by the QA
  testing framework. We expanded our diffusion simulation to cover such case and
  also mitigated a chance for reintroducing such a bug in future.

* We identified and quite likely mitigated a misconfiguration in the
  benchmarking cluster (next benchmarking run will confirm our hypothesis).

* We simplified the format of p2p topology file, we got positive feedback from
  SPOs.

* We raised severities of some of the logging messages, which is an important
  improvement for SPOs, exchanges and other users of the system.

* We worked on input endorsers simulation which gives both animated and
  quantified live feedback on network operation, using a simplified model of
  a TCP/IP network. 

## Next quarter

* Release the Single Relay P2P Release `1.35.5`.

* Carry on with Peer Sharing (review, testing).

* Deliver a talk at [Conference on Principles of Distributed Systems 2022][OPODIS2022] in Brussels, Belgium.

* Present Detailed Design of Eclipse Evasion and start implementation phase.

* Work on P2P Block Producer release.

* Carry on with publishing of `io-sim` on `Hackage`.

[OPODIS2022]: https://sites.uclouvain.be/OPODIS2022/ 
[peer-sharing-design]: https://github.com/input-output-hk/ouroboros-network/wiki/Peer-Sharing-Implementation-Plan
[peer-sharing-pr]: https://github.com/input-output-hk/ouroboros-network/pull/4019
[p2p-release]: https://github.com/input-output-hk/ouroboros-network/pull/4120
[exit-policy]: https://github.com/input-output-hk/ouroboros-network/pull/3785
[peer-metrics]: https://github.com/input-output-hk/ouroboros-network/pull/3915
[socket-activation]: https://github.com/input-output-hk/ouroboros-network/pull/3979
[topology-file]: https://github.com/input-output-hk/cardano-node/pull/4563
[dns-ttl]: https://github.com/input-output-hk/ouroboros-network/pull/4106
[consensus-startup-trace]: https://github.com/input-output-hk/ouroboros-network/pull/4015
[demotion-trace]: https://github.com/input-output-hk/ouroboros-network/pull/4127
[idle-timeout]: https://github.com/input-output-hk/ouroboros-network/pull/3844
[pr-3800]: https://github.com/input-output-hk/ouroboros-network/pull/3800
[pr-3690]: https://github.com/input-output-hk/ouroboros-network/issues/3968
