---
title: Ledger Team Update
slug: 2022-11-07-ledger
authors: JaredCorduan
tags: [ledger]
hide_table_of_contents: false
---

## Ledger Quarterly Update
## 2022-09 - 2022-11-04

* We finished a minimal ledger era capable of master key rotation.
  This will be re-purposed our upcoming work.
* We have the humble beginnings of a proper ledger API.
* We improved the problematic cost model serialization
  (recall the song and dance about updating the cost model one epoch after the hard fork).
* We have added benchmarks for problematic areas.
* Massive repository restructure and cleanup.
  * Unified and consistent variable name schemes (not completely finished, but nearly there).
  * Massive reduction in type constraints, which causes a lot of developer friction,
    in our code and also downstream.
  * More organized module structures.
  * Improved generators for our property tests.
  * We removed our dependency on cardano-prelude.
* The formal ledger model has come a long way.
  * We created a fork of Agda that provides some meta-programming support for the ledger rules.
  * We have a large amount of the basic UTxO support in the model.
  * We can generate a good looking PDF from the model.
  * We can produce Haskell from the model.
  * We have a nice finite set theory library that we can use for many of the ledger rules.
  * We have nix support for the model.

## Next steps

  * Individual tracking of deposits. [[issue-3113]]
  * Versioned CBOR encoders/decoders. [[issue-3014]]
  * New ledger era transaction body (and the surround work associated with it).
  * Designs for the next ledger era.

[issue-3113]: https://github.com/input-output-hk/cardano-ledger/issues/3113
[issue-3014]: https://github.com/input-output-hk/cardano-ledger/issues/3014
