---
title: SRE Q3 2024 Update
slug: 2024-Q3-sre
authors: johnalotoski
tags: [sre]
hide_table_of_contents: false
---

## 2024-07 - 2024-09

### Main achievements

In addition to ongoing general maintenance and support of cardano environments,
SRE achievements for this quarter include:

* All IOE cardano-parts supported node environments, including preview,
  preprod, sanchonet, mainnet and other clusters were upgraded through various
  cardano-node releases of `9.0.0`, `9.1.0`, `9.1.1`, `9.2.0`, and finally into
  `9.2.1` by the end of September.

* All IOE cardano-parts supported node environments had dual stack ipv4/ipv6
  capability added and configured, including supporting scripts and recipes,
  module updates, terraform/openTofu resource changes and software updates to
  make previously ipv6 incompatible software ipv6 compatible, example:
  cardano-faucet. Cardano-parts clusters can now seamlessly participate in ipv6
  cardano-node traffic and other ipv6 traffic.

* Preview, preprod and mainnet networks were hard forked to Conway.

* Legacy mainnet cluster shelley-era high-load relays were scaled down over the
  quarter and stopped now that p2p has removed the need for them.

* Legacy cardano [explorer](https://explorer.cardano.org/) was retired and
  Cardano Foundation is now providing the replacement landing page which links
  to several community explorers.

* Cardano-smash production load was retired from equinix metal hosting from the
  cardano-world repo and transferred to the new cardano-mainnet cluster.

* New cardano-mainnet cluster scaling capability was added for the bootstrap
  machines.  Block performance analysis was used to tune RTS parameters on the
  bootstraps and other mainnet pool machines.

* Sanchonet environment was re-spun for cardano-node `9.1.0` and greater compatibility.

* Private chain was stopped and re-spun with 2 hr epochs for testing.

* New nixosModules were added to cardano-parts and cardano-playground,
  including: `profile-blockperf`, `profile-tcpdump` (for saving node traffic
  pcaps to s3) and `ogmios`.

* Documentation for playground and mainnet cluster operations was improved,
  such as documents for: debugging of peer-to-peer connections; governance
  voting with the playground stakepools; faucet setup; faucet pool
  de-delegation and mainnet dbsync cardano-snapshot operations. See the
  `docs/explain` directory of both the
  [cardano-playground](https://github.com/input-output-hk/cardano-playground)
  and [cardano-mainnet](https://github.com/input-output-hk/cardano-mainnet)
  repos for details.

* The [cardano-monitoring](https://github.com/input-output-hk/cardano-monitoring)
  repository received a lot of documentation and improvements and now also
  serves as the home for `devx-ci` metrics after migration away from Grafana
  cloud hosting.

* An improved [cardano-airgap](https://github.com/Intersectmbo/cardano-airgap)
  image for secure signing operations was created and made available.

* Hydra CI performance was improved with changes to our custom Nix evaluator
  and optimized resource usage while waiting for IFDs.

### Next steps

* Add a production protocol-parameters cardano-api based server to facilitate
  community transaction creation without requiring a live node.

* Migrate from deprecated grafana agent to grafana alloy.

* Finalize support for the new cardano-node tracing system once the service is
  rewritten for general consumption.

* Extend govtool frontend and backend to a process-compose stack once govtool
  is publicly buildable again.

* Continue cardano-parts and operations improvements.
