---
title: SRE Q4 2024 Update
slug: 2024-Q4-sre
authors: johnalotoski
tags: [sre]
hide_table_of_contents: false
---

## 2024-10 - 2024-12

### Main achievements

In addition to ongoing general maintenance and support of cardano environments,
some highlights of SRE achievements for this quarter include:

* Cardano-parts started offering regular
  [releases](https://github.com/input-output-hk/cardano-parts/releases) to ease
  the process of upgrading rather than only PR merges with migration notes.

* All IOE cardano-parts supported node environments, including preview,
  preprod, sanchonet, mainnet were upgraded through various cardano-node releases
  including `10.0.0-pre`, `10.1.0-pre`, `10.1.1`, `10.1.2`, and finally into
  `10.1.3` by the end of December.

* All environments were migrated from deprecated grafana agent to grafana alloy.

* Sanchonet environment was re-spun twice; once for cardano-node
  `10.0.0-pre` and once for a community scheduled PV11 hardfork test.

* Preview and preprod networks were successfully forked into Conway era, Plomin
  protocol version `10.0`.

* Private and shelley-qa chains were retired after fulfilling their intended
  goal.

* Remaining cardano-world legacy resources were retired, replaced by
  cardano-playground.

Details of this and other SRE work can be found in the biweekly SRE reports.

### Next steps

* Switch to the new cardano-node tracing system as default and retire use of
  the legacy tracing system, including dashboards, alerts, cardano-tracer and
  cardano-node nixos service updates as well as container image required changes.

* Continue cardano-parts and operations improvements.
