---
title: SRE Q1 2025 Update
slug: 2025-Q1-sre
authors: johnalotoski
tags: [sre]
hide_table_of_contents: false
---

## 2025-01 - 2025-03

### Main achievements

In addition to ongoing general maintenance and support of cardano environments,
some highlights of SRE achievements for this quarter include:

* All IOE cardano-parts supported node environments, including preview,
preprod, sanchonet, mainnet were upgraded through cardano-node releases
including `10.1.4` and `10.2.1` (for pre-release configured machines).

* Sanchonet was respun to test the hard fork mechanism to protocol version 11
with community participation.

* A nixos buildkite agent module was ported to cardano-playground to support
custom QA testing workflows.

* A nixos AWS ephemeral block device module was added to cardano-parts
to support upcoming cardano-node UTXO-HD features which leverage fast NVMe block
devices.

* The `sanchonet` cardano network was retired and handed over to community as
it had fulfilled its purpose as an early testing network for Voltaire era
governance features.

* Cardano node and submit-api container improvements were made to reduce prior
inconsistencies, add a new useful mode of operation, add useful configuration
references and improve documentation.

* The cardano-node flake closure was optimized and reduced in size 18 percent.

* The nix hydra machine used for cardano-node builds was migrated to upgraded
hardware allowing for better evaluation concurrency and therefore an enhanced
developer ci experience.

Details of this and other SRE work can be found in the biweekly SRE reports.
