---
title: Ledger Team Update
slug: 2022-09-01-ledger
authors: JaredCorduan
tags: [ledger]
hide_table_of_contents: false
---

# Ledger Update

Since finishing up support for the Vasil Hardfork, the ledger team has been
focused on two main things: a new ledger era and technical debt.

## New minimal ledger era

We have implemented a new ledger era named `conway` which is nearly identical
to the `babbage` era. This has been the first time that we have been able to see
what a minimal ledger era looks like. We have finished this task, modulo any
integration issues that might come up. The only thing that the `conway` era
does differently from the `babbage` era is provide support for rotating
the master keys using the hardfork combinator's state translation.
We may end up adding features to the `conway` era, but it is a nice exercise
seeing what it looks like to get a minimal ledger era supported in all the
downstream components.

## Addressing technical debt

We have been addressing technical debt, mostly in an effort to make the
repository a more friendly code base to work in.

- We have begun work on a ledger API, called `cardano-ledger-api`.
- We have done a big re-design of the major type classes used in the ledger.
  With hindsight on our side, we now have something much more organized and
  easier to use.
- We have done a lot of re-naming. The names across eras are now much more
  uniform, avoid certain confusions that plagued us, and are clearer in where
  they are from.
- We have reduced a lot of code duplication that could lead to bugs if you
  do not have the whole code base in your head.
- We have added a handful of performance improvements.
- We added type safety in a number of locations. In particular, the type of
  values that can be minted in a transaction no longer allow for Lovelace
  in the type, and some functions which used to handle both timelock scripts
  and plutus script now correctly enoforce at the type level that only one of
  them can be used.
- We made our generators so that they now produce a much richer set of
  valid serializations. There is room within CBOR to serialize the same
  data structure in multiple ways, and it is helpful to have the generators
  use a wide variety.
- We have begun re-organizing our test suites.
