---
title: Network Team Update
slug: 2022-11-28-network
authors: coot
tags: [network, release]
hide_table_of_contents: false
---

## Stake-Driven Data Diffusion Release for Relays

IOG networking team decided to release the _Stake-Driven Data Diffusion with
Robust Optimised Peer Selection_ also more commonly known as _P2P_.  In the
last update, we informed about a performance regression, but it turns out it
only affects block producers, and thus we highly advise against running it on
such nodes.  Further investigation is required to find the cause of it.

On IOG's benchmarking cluster we have seen quite a good performance improvement
on block propagation itself.  The cluster is running a static topology with
valency 6 (each node is connected to 6 other nodes).  In which every of the 50
nodes are block producers.  The setup of this network is the same as mainnet.
We've seen 40-50% performance improvement on block propagation comparing to the
same cluster deployed with the same topology but using non-P2P nodes.  We think
this performance improvement is caused by using full duplex connections.  Quite
likely the transaction traffic floating in both directions on the same TCP
connection helps to keep the TCP window open.  Note that in a cluster of 50
nodes with valency 6 the probability of having at least one duplex connection
is more than 50%.  We don't expect the same improvement on mainnet because the
network is much wider and the transaction traffic is not as large.

Just before the release we squashed two small bugs:

* [issue #4163] - top level integration bug in `keep-alive`;
* [issue #4177] - a bug in `outbound-governor`;
* [PR #4165] - a fix `cardano-ping` support of `NodeToNodeV_10`.


### Peer Sharing

We were carrying a review of [peer sharing PR][PR #4019].

### DeltaQ

Neil Davies was invited to give a guest lecture entitled `Avoiding System Catastrophes` at [UCLouvain].

## What have we achieve last sprint

* [issue #4163]: we found out that a control message is not passed to the
  `keep-alive` mini-protocol, this results in every demotion executing demotion
  timeout rather than a graceful termination.  With the fix the node will no longer log:
  ```json
  { "kind": "PeerStatusChangeFailure"
  , "peerStatusChangeType": "WarmToCold (ConnectionId {localAddress = 192.168.0.10:7000, remoteAddress = 3.129.186.40:3000})"
  , "reason": "TimeoutError"
  }
  ````

* [issue #4177]: we fixed an assertion failure in the `outbound-governor`; now
  we don't try demoted peers which are being demoted already.

* [PR #4155]: we refactored `ouroboros-network` packages.  There's a top level
  `ouroboros-consensus-diffusion` package which integrates `network`
  & `consensus` code.  We also introduced:

  - `ouroboros-network-api` package which contains the API shared between
    `network` & `conensus`;
  - `ouroboros-network-mock` package which contains mock API used for testing
    (e.g. a mock chain & chain producer, etc.)
  - `ouroboros-network-protocols` package which contains implementation of all
    (but `handshake`) mini-protocols, exposes a `testlib` and contains `test`
    and `cddl` components.

  This made the dependency tree of `network` & `consensus` packages much
  cleaner.

* [PR #4169]: we described the usage of release branches in `CONTRIBUTING.md`
  doc.

* [PR #4165]: we fixed `cardano-ping` support of `NodeToNodeV_10` protocol.


### DeltaQ

The abstract of the talk:

> An essential step to ensuring that distributed systems are fit for
> purpose.
> 
> Distributed systems have become an integral part of our society and
> daily lives. We are, both implicitly and explicitly, individually as well as
> collectively, placing ever more trust in them.
> 
> Are they worthy of this trust?  Our need for them to be ‘fit-for-purpose’ goes
> well beyond notions of functional correctness (i.e. never getting the wrong
> answer). We need them to deliver the desired outcomes in a timely, robust,
> reliable, resilient fashion, at scale and in a sustainable way (both
> economically and environmentally).
> 
> This all sounds like a worthy aspiration, but what would be a practical
> approach to capturing and reasoning about these issues? How can we ensure that
> systems can meet their fit-for-purpose objectives, not just in their design but
> as they are deployed, encounter the imperfect world, are scaled to become
> economic, and proceed into ongoing maintenance?
> 
> This talk will illustrate how the notions of Outcomes and Quality Attenuation
> (as captured by ‘∆Q’) are being used to both frame the necessary notions and
> provide a basis for assuring the refinement and reification of such systems,
> from initial concept to operational infrastructure.

You can download the slides from [here][slides].

[issue #4163]: https://github.com/input-output-hk/ouroboros-network/issues/4163
[issue #4177]: https://github.com/input-output-hk/ouroboros-network/issues/4177
[PR #4155]: https://github.com/input-output-hk/ouroboros-network/pull/4155
[PR #4169]: https://github.com/input-output-hk/ouroboros-network/pull/4169
[PR #4165]: https://github.com/input-output-hk/ouroboros-network/pull/4165
[PR #4019]: https://github.com/input-output-hk/ouroboros-network/pull/4019
[UCLouvain]: https://uclouvain.be/en/index.html
[slides]: https://github.com/input-output-hk/cardano-updates/blob/main/static/pdf/network/2022-11-24-UCL.pdf
