---
title: DB Sync Team Update
slug: 2022-10-04-db-sync
tags: [db-sync]
hide_table_of_contents: false
---

# DBSync Update


### Fast restarts
 We fixed a long overdue issue in db-sync which caused long delays on restarts
 [1266](https://github.com/input-output-hk/cardano-db-sync/pull/1266). This has been
 one of db-sync main objectives for this period. Restarts are now very fast,
 because db-sync deletes almost nothing from the db, it just replays the ledger rules until it
 reaches the tip of the db. The fix also improves reconnection speed, in cases where the node
 restarts or the connection is temporarily lost. It also speeds up even more in cases where due to a
 deployment mess up a very old snapshot or no snapshot at all is used.

### Property based testing
We added stateful property based testing, using `quickcheck-state-machine`
 [1269](https://github.com/input-output-hk/cardano-db-sync/pull/1269). These tests use empty or
 almost empty blocks to test the new behaviour of restarts and rollbacks.

 These tests generate arbitrarily a list of symbolic commands from these:

```
RollForward Int
RollBack BlockNo
StopDBSync
StartDBSync
RestartNode
AssertBlockNo BlockNo
```

The commands are translated into real commands. For example `RollForward Int` will forge a new block
that fits on the current chain. These real commands are executed against db-sync using the mock
chain-sync server. The symbolic commands are executed against a vesy simplistic Model of db-sync
which looks like this:

``` haskell
  Model
    { serverTip :: BlockNo
    , dbSyncTip :: BlockNo
    , dbSynsIsOn :: Bool
    , dbSynsHasSynced :: Bool
    }
```

Finally a number of postconditions are checked, related to the eventual block number of db-sync.

### Tech Debt

We handled a number of tech debt in
 [1275](https://github.com/input-output-hk/cardano-db-sync/pull/1275)
 This improves the code format of db-sync, deletes many queries that were never used and groups the
 others. This tech debt resolution not only improves the experience of working in db-sync, but can
 facilitate some of our other objectives, as it makes it very explicit which queries are used
 during syncing and which indexes are necessary.

### Smash

We worked on fixing an issue related to fetching pool metadata
 [1276](https://github.com/input-output-hk/cardano-db-sync/pull/1276).
 The issue which is described in
 [1270](https://github.com/input-output-hk/cardano-db-sync/issues/1270)
