---
title: Hydra Team Update
slug: 2022-10-21-hydra
authors:
  - name: Sebastian Nagel
    title: Hydra Team Lead
    url: https://github.com/ch1bo
    image_url: https://github.com/ch1bo.png
tags: [hydra]
hide_table_of_contents: false
---

# High level summary

This week, the hydra team reviewed and addressed several open comments on the
new HeadV1 specification, completing a list the of identified gaps between
specification and implementation while doing so. In the wake of the recent
demonstration of SundaeSwap running their DEX in a Hydra Head, they met with
them to capture feature ideas & incorporate their feedback on the roadmap, as
well as potential research avenues.

## What did the team achieve this week

- Had the monthly review meeting, a bit earlier than expected: <https://input-output.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/HYDRA/pages/3650813953/Monthly+report+-+October+2022>
- Reviewed and addressed several open comments on HeadV1 specification.
- Completed the list of identified gaps between specification and implementation [#452](https://github.com/input-output-hk/hydra-poc/issues/452)
- Had two meetings with SundaeSwap to incorporate their feedback (on research and on the roadmap).
- Some small fixes on TUI and our docker images. [#538](https://github.com/input-output-hk/hydra-poc/issues/538) [#562](https://github.com/input-output-hk/hydra-poc/pull/562)
- Met with the internal audit team and clarified scope.

## What are the goals of next week

- Complete the last two items required for a version `0.8.0`.
- Cut the next release, version `0.8.0`
- Get backup/recovery [#187](https://github.com/input-output-hk/hydra-poc/issues/187) done with proper event sourcing (ADR18)
- Have the CI build macos artifacts
