---
title: Hydra Team Update
slug: 2022-01-13-hydra
authors: ch1bo
tags: [hydra]
hide_table_of_contents: false
---

## High-level summary

Since last weekly update before christmas, the Hydra team worked on the
technical specification, closed gaps in `hydra-plutus` scripts, made the unique
`headId` available to Hydra clients through the API, allow the `hydra-node` to
explicitly synchronize from genesis (if configured), and fixed smaller log and
build issues reported by new users.

Besides this, a retrospective [blog
post](https://cardanofoundation.org/en/news/hydra-head-protocol-an-open-source-solution-for-scalability/)
was published by Matthias Benkort (CF) on Hydra, summarizing our progress made
in 2022 also an outlook where Hydra is headed for in 2023. Also, the team had
some first sessions on the voting project with Catalyst and the CF.

A full digest monthly digest for December 2022 can be found on the [hydra
website](https://hydra.family/head-protocol/monthly/2022-12).

## What did the team achieve this week

- Had some first sessions on the voting project with Catalyst and CF
- Published retrospective [blog
  post](https://cardanofoundation.org/en/news/hydra-head-protocol-an-open-source-solution-for-scalability/)
  by Matthias Benkort (CF) on Hydra, summarizing our progress made in 2022 also
  an outlook where Hydra is headed for in 2023.
- Worked on the LaTeX spec for HydraHeadV1, not final or published yet - [latest
  version in this repository](https://github.com/ch1bo/hydra-spec).
- Add unique `headId` to API and hence make it available to clients.
- Allow `hydra-node` to explicitly synchronize from genesis using `--start-chain-from 0`.
- Closed gaps in `hydra-plutus` scripts
    - bounded transaction validity ([ADR21](https://hydra.family/head-protocol/adr/21/))
    - enforcing contract continuity via state token in output
- Fixed JSON for some logs and smaller build issues reported by new users.

## What are the goals of next week

- Reach out to have `hydra-tutorial` integrated.
- Plan the next couple of months.
- Complete checking reimbursing of commits in head validator.
- Align plutus scripts to spec and simplify them (identified some simplifications)
- Improve mutation framework to be sure we fail tests for the right reasons
- Complete the spec except the open points (<5) and also discuss them with researchers.
