---
title: Crypto Team Update
slug: 2023-02-17-crypto
authors: iquerejeta
tags: [crypto]
hide_table_of_contents: false
---

## High level summary
The open fronts that the crypto team is working on are:
* Mithril: Helper functions finished. Continue preparing a RFP for an audit of mithril's core library (decided to add audit of KES). Design proposal for viable registration.
* cardano-base: Praos to PraosBatchCompat ready. KES secure forgetting finished, but holding merge for delivery strategy (breaking changes). Tested real world SNARK verification on plutus.
* KES agent: using snockets and making things testable in IOSim
* MuSig2: started implementation in rust.

## Low level summary

### Mithril
* Transmute helpers merged [PR#722](https://github.com/input-output-hk/mithril/pull/722)
* We have progressed with the RFP document for the mithril-stm library. Progressing with description of octopus algorithm. Included KES in scope. 
* We are working in a modification of KES to require caller to allocate the secret key buffer.
* Proposed a solution for signer registration of [Mithril](https://github.com/input-output-hk/mithril/wiki/Mithril-registration-procedure#cost).
### cardano-base
* Progressing with BLS12-381. Worked with plutus team to have a plutus script verifying a Groth16 [proof](https://github.com/input-output-hk/plutus/tree/kwxm/BLS12_381/prototype/plutus-benchmark/bls-benchmarks).
	* Results are promising, with using only 23% of the execution budget to verify a realistic proof. 
	* Next step is to build a real world use case (and not use a dummy proof). Projects being considered are Sidechains, Hydra or Mithril.
* KES secure forgetting merge is being held off, due to breaking changes. We are considering handling several branches in cardano-base for this.
* Conversion finally merged [PR#344](https://github.com/input-output-hk/cardano-base/pull/344).

### KES agent
* Figuring out how to use sockets to write directly into the file descriptor. Digging into the sockets implementation
* Figuring out how to go from fake file descriptor to write the raw bytes

### MuSig2
* Started implementing MuSig2 in Rust using the Ristretto prime order group. Still experimental.
