---
title: Hydra Team Update
slug: 2023-08-18-hydra
authors: [ch1bo]
tags: [hydra]
hide_table_of_contents: false
---

## High-level summary

This week, the Hydra team released version 0.12.0, a significant update that
brings support for cardano-node 8.1.2, along with performance enhancements and
various API improvements. Additionally, the team successfully onboarded a new
contributor who is now actively participating in operating a Hydra Head. They
took part in a meeting of the Intersect open source committee and prepared the
Hydra master-class for RareEvo, an educational initiative for the community.

If you happen to be at RareEvo, register for the Hydra master-class [using this
form](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/1Q9KIxwKeyZeNrKDBiYWceYjnbxIxaEwC8Eo5LWxSa2g/viewform?edit_requested=true).
We hope to make it possible to follow along on-line as well and will announce
details on the Hydra announcements channel on the [IOG discord
server](https://discord.gg/Qq5vNTg9PT).

## What did the team achieve this week

-   Released version 0.12.0 which adds support for cardano-node 8.1.2, performance
    and several API improvements. [Release notes](https://github.com/input-output-hk/hydra/releases/tag/0.12.0)
-   Replaced commit via websocket with external draft + submit. [#954](https://github.com/input-output-hk/hydra/issues/954)
-   Onboarded new contributor to the point where he actively participates in operating a Head now.
-   Joined a first meeting of the Intersect open source committee
-   Prepared the Hydra master-class for RareEvo.

## What are the goals of next week

-   Monthly review meeting
-   Run the Hydra master-class at RareEvo!
-   Updated Hydra tutorial including Mithril and re-record demo/tutorial stuff
-   Clear out red bin items (technical debt)
-   Groom network resilience and explorer features
