---
title: Crypto Team Update
slug: 2023-03-17-crypto
authors: iquerejeta
tags: [crypto]
hide_table_of_contents: false
---

## High level summary
The open fronts that the crypto team is working on are:
* Mithril: RFP finished. Code ready for audit.
* cardano-base: BLS12-381's PR approved, only blocker is Windows' CI. Preparing extensive testing strategy together with Plutus and Testing teams.
* KES agent: Working on a desing on how to use IO sim in order to allow for proper network simulation testing.
* Sidechains: Preparing proving system to use the curves needed for main-net PoC.  
## Low level summary
### Mithril
* Merged [PR#783](https://github.com/input-output-hk/mithril/pull/783)
* RFP for crypto audit ready.
### cardano-base
* BLS12-381 branch approved [PR#266](https://github.com/input-output-hk/cardano-base/pull/266). Blocker is Windown's CI. Working on it
* Testing strategy for BLS bindings:
    * Preparing test-vectors for Groth16, and simple BLS signatures
    * Finding community projects to help write their use cases
    * Designing AC, and expected tests for higher levels of development (Plutus team, E2E tests, etc)
* Wrote [blogpost](https://github.com/input-output-hk/blogpost_breaking_ed25519_vrf/blob/main/blog.md) on how using the same key for ed25519 and VRF completely breaks the security of both systems 
### KES agent
* Started integration of sockets interface used in consensus
* Use that for de/ser
* Resolving problems with block memory in IOSim. Can't use withForeignPtr in IOSim
* Results in having to parametrise for IOSim in KES and DSIGN for testing
### Sidechains
* Prepared an API for proof generation in sidechains, with it's C API for integration with JVM languages.
* Design document and start interacting with researchers for concrete instantiation of SNARK-based ATMS.
* EdDSA over JubJub ready
