---
title: Crypto Team Update
slug: 2023-02-03-crypto
authors: iquerejeta
tags: [crypto]
hide_table_of_contents: false
---

## High level summary
The open fronts that the crypto team is working on are:
* Mithril: We are creating helper functions to single out the usage of unsafe to facilitate auditing. We are also preparing a RFP for an audit of mithril's core library. Exploring future paths of mithril. 
* cardano-base: Decision of whether to continue with BLS12-381 or switch curves. Conversion Praos to PraosBatchCompat ready, as well as KES secure forgetting.  
* KES agent: using snockets and making things testable in IOSim 
* MuSig2: GH actions updated for checking the files whether they end with an empty line. Also, we reorganized the library.

## Low level summary

### Mithril
* Given that removing the usage of transmute really affects the benchmarks, we decided to group all unsafe functions to facilitate auditing [PR#722](https://github.com/input-output-hk/mithril/pull/722)
* We have progressed with the RFP document for the mithril-stm library. We are documenting the differences with respect with the original paper.
* We are exploring possible paths of how mithril could be used 'as-a-service'. Other projects such as sidechains or Catalyst would benefit of such a service. We are at a very early stage of brainstorming how it could work.
### cardano-base
* There has been a very thorough discussion with potential users of the BLS12-381 bindings if that is the best curve. We have considered alternatives such as Pasta curves, Pluto-Eris or BLS12-377, and considering it's trade-offs. Seems that the most interesting curve to have on main-net is still 381. 
* The team is gaining expertise in SNARKs to be able to experiment with them, and conclude whether the bindings will allow for SNARK verification on main-net in a timely manner.
* The update VRF [PR#341](https://github.com/input-output-hk/cardano-base/pull/341) is finally merged, and we are ready to merge [PR#344](https://github.com/input-output-hk/cardano-base/pull/344), which implements conversion functions from the compatible types between Praos and PraosBatchCompat.

### KES agent
* Use of snockets to send the data directly from the socket to secure memory. 
* We realized that in order for the DirectSerialise / DirectDeserialise classes to work against IOSim, we have to generalize a bunch of additional primitives
* Our plans are to: (1) Split up MonadSodium into separate typeclasses, each capturing a more sensible concern; (2) Rename those typeclasses to something that reflects their nature better.

### MuSig2
The GitHub Action [linelint](https://github.com/fernandrone/linelint) is used to check the files.
* A new job for linting is added to the file `/.github/workflows/ci.yml`. The rules are configured in the file `/.github/workflows/.linelint.yml`. Some files from the configuration of `libsecp` were failing, so in the rules in `.linelint.yml` the failing files are denoted to be ignored by the linter.
* Folders are reorganized. We created a folder to handle the example. This folder includes the `examplemusig2.c`, a distinct `config.h`, and `helper.c`. The example is enhanced by implementing the functions in the helper for the configuration given in `config.h`.  The number of messages is different than the tests. The example is made more generic to run with a loop.
