---
title: Network Team Update
slug: 2023-03-21-network
authors: coot
tags: [network]
hide_table_of_contents: false
---

## High level summary

In the last spring we released `cardano-node-1.35.6` with dynamic P2P
functionality.

We received reports from some SPOs who encountered problems with their non
P2P block producing nodes not being able to connect to their P2P relay.  Karl
Knutsson (from Cardano Foundation) reproduced this issue between two nodes (a
non P2P and a P2P one) on mainnet.  Karl and the IOG Networking Team analysed
it and found a bug in the legacy non p2p code.  The bug is only possible to
trigger with a P2P node which is binding its outbound connection port to
a fixed IP address and port (default in p2p).  A possible solution was found.
For more information see [#4465].

We released `cardano-ping-0.1.0.0` package to `CHaP`.  `cardano-ping` is no
longer available as a standalone binary, but instead it will become part of
`cardano-cli` (see [#4664])

We are testing `cardano-node` with peer sharing functionality ([#4019]).

We are working on _eclipse evasion_.  We added new class of peers: big ledger
peers to the outbound governor, implemented tests and fixed found issues
([#4462]).  We also made the information if a given peer plays the role of
a big ledger peer to the mini-protocols.  This will allow to modify
mini-protocol applications for such peers.   As part of this functionality we
refactored some core types in the network code which simplifies exposed API.


[#4019]: https://github.com/input-output-hk/ouroboros-network/pull/4019
[#4462]: https://github.com/input-output-hk/ouroboros-network/pull/4462
[#4465]: https://github.com/input-output-hk/ouroboros-network/issues/4465
[#4664]: https://github.com/input-output-hk/cardano-node/pull/4664
