---
title: Network Team Update
slug: 2023-12-22-network
authors: coot
tags: [network]
hide_table_of_contents: false
---

## High-level overview of [sprint 51][sprint-51]

### Outbound Governor Bug in `cardano-node-8.7.2`

In the current sprint, we received a bunch of reports from SPOs about nodes not
maintaining some connection when using `cardano-node-8.7.2` (running in P2P
mode).  Such regressions are very important to us since they can lead to lost
blocks.  We were able to reproduce this issue.  Every time there's a longer
pause of block production (due to the statistical nature of Ouroboros), there
is a chance that the bug will be armed.  For this reason `cardano-node-8.7.2`
needs to be closely monitored.

We found the bug and developed a fix, [ref][ouroboros-network#4748].  Karl
Kntusson ([CF]) wasn't able to reproduce the bug with the patched version of
the node for long enough (almost two weeks now) for us to belive that the fix
is correct.  

### Advise for SPOs

We created a [release branch for `8.7.3`][cardano-node-8.7.3].  The advice from
the *network team* is to either downgrade to the previous release, e.g. `8.1.2`
or use the above release branch (note that there were no benchmarks made or Q&A
tests yet).

### Testing plans

We were also able to reproduce the bug using `IOSim`, [ouroboros-network#4757].
However, the bug relies on a particular schedule of two threads which are
involved and we needed to artificailly modify `IOSim` schedule in production
code - something that we don't want to commit to the `master` branch.  We also
experimented with a randomised scheduler for `IOSim`, but that did not lead to
finding the schedule which arms the bug: the search space grows exponentially
with the number of steps in the threads, partial order reduction techniques
implemented in `IOSimPOR` are more appropriate - unfortunatelly the simulation
test is too large to be executed in `IOSimPOR` even with large amounts of
`RAM`.  To use `IOSimPOR` we need to implement a test which includes the two
interacting components:

* `connection-manager`
* `outbound-governor` (where the bug was located)

which communicate through `PeerStateActions`, without including all the
diffusion components as we do in our [sim-net] tests.  More in style of
`outbound-governor` tests where there is just a single `outbound-governor`,
unlike in the [sim-net] which runs multiple communicating diffusions.

### Bootstrap peers

We continued working on bootstrap peers, [ouroboros-network#4555]

### TxSubmission Decision Logic

We continued working on tx-submission decision logic, [ouroboros-network#3311]


[CF]: https://cardanofoundation.org
[cardano-node-8.7.3]: https://github.com/IntersectMBO/cardano-node/tree/release/8.7 
[ouroboros-network#3311]: https://github.com/input-output-hk/ouroboros-network/pull/3311
[ouroboros-network#4555]: https://github.com/input-output-hk/ouroboros-network/pull/4555
[ouroboros-network#4748]: https://github.com/IntersectMBO/ouroboros-network/pull/4748
[ouroboros-network#4757]: https://github.com/IntersectMBO/ouroboros-network/pull/4757
[sim-net]: https://github.com/IntersectMBO/ouroboros-network/blob/master/ouroboros-network/sim-tests-lib/Test/Ouroboros/Network/Testnet.hs
[sprint-51]: https://github.com/orgs/intersectmbo/projects/5/views/1?filterQuery=sprint%3A%22sprint+51%22
