---
title: Crypto Team Update
slug: 2023-01-20-crypto
authors: iquerejeta
tags: [crypto]
hide_table_of_contents: false
---

## High level summary
The open fronts that the crypto team is working on are:
* Mithril: We explored whether some uses of `transmute` could be removed, but it resulted in considerable regression.  
* cardano-base: Some issues with Nix are blocking merge of VRF update. BLS12-381 benchmarks where quite satisfactory. Next steps will be defined by cryptography strategic decision. 
* KES agent: An inconsistency between `contra-tracer` available in hackage and the one in cardano-haskell delayed our progress. Now we are adapting PRs to the `contra-tracer` used by consensus. 

## Low level summary

### Mithril
* We removed the usage of transmute in mithril-core (and exchanged it with ser/deser, as unfortunately there is no other way with the library we currently use). However, the benchmarks showed an important regression - ~30% worse on average [PR#675](https://github.com/input-output-hk/mithril/pull/675). We decided to keep transmute, but instead group all its usage in helper functions, to facilitate auditing. 
* We are writing a RFP for the audit of the core library. 
### cardano-base
* A problem with Nix is blocking merge of [PR#341](https://github.com/input-output-hk/cardano-base/pull/341)
* Plutus team ran [benchmarks](https://github.com/input-output-hk/plutus/blob/kwxm/BLS12_381/prototype/plutus-benchmark/bls-benchmarks/Main.hs) of BLS12-381 built-ins. The results are satisfactory, and while we have yet not implemented SNARK verification in plutus, it all seems to point that we'll be able to verify some proofs in a single script execution.
* Team is fully digesting the Plonk paper. 
* There's been a lot of discussions (with internal and external projects) regarding pairings in plutus, and what elliptic curve should be used.  

### KES agent
* A little unforseen delay has been caused by a mismatch in the use of `contra-tracer`. The one in hackage and that in cardano-haskell are not compatible. Unfortunately, for secure forgetting we use that of hackage, and now realised. We are [doing the change](https://github.com/input-output-hk/cardano-base/pull/255/commits/39b2d9473aa296976825248360a73cf066065431), but still the CI is not happy.
* The [same](https://github.com/input-output-hk/cardano-base/pull/317/commits/39b2d9473aa296976825248360a73cf066065431) was needed for the KES agents prerequisites [PR#317](https://github.com/input-output-hk/cardano-base/pull/317).
* We've started working with the agent itself again, upgrading the cardano-base dependency and adding ouroboros-network-framework dependency 
