---
title: SRE Team Update
slug: 2024-09-20-sre
authors: johnalotoski
tags: [sre]
hide_table_of_contents: false
---

## High level summary

The SRE team continues work on Cardano environment improvements and general maintenance.

Some notable recent changes, updates or improvements include:

* All environments have been upgraded to cardano-node `9.2.0`.

* All IOE run cardano-parts clusters (ie: sanchonet, preview, preprod, etc
  testnets, mainnet and network-team clusters) have been upgraded to support
  ipv4/ipv6 dual stack operations. This includes each cardano network's
  respective public access or backbone DNS, now offering AAAA records for ipv6
  connections.

## Repository Work

### Cardano-parts
* Sets cardano-node to `9.2.0`. Adds ipv6 tf, module and recipe support for
  ipv4/ipv6 dual stack operations. Updates alerts and dashboards for the new
  tracing system to reflect metrics name changes and legacy metric prefix
  normalization. Adds misc fixes and improvements. More detail is available in
  the PR description:
  [cardano-parts-pull-48](https://github.com/input-output-hk/cardano-parts/pull/48)

### Cardano-playground
* Deploys cardano-node to `9.2.0`. Converts all relevant cluster resources and
  machines to ipv4/6 dual-stack operations. Updates alerts and dashboards for
  the new tracing system to reflect metrics name changes and legacy metric
  prefix normalization. More detail is available in the PR description:
  [cardano-playground-pull-32](https://github.com/input-output-hk/cardano-playground/pull/32)

### Cardano-mainnet
* Deploys cardano-node to `9.2.0`. Converts all relevant cluster resources and
  machines to ipv4/6 dual-stack operations. Adds new bootstrap scaling machine
  startup and shutdown recipes. Updates alerts and dashboards for the new
  tracing system to reflect metrics name changes and legacy metric prefix
  normalization. More detail is available in the PR description:
  [cardano-mainnet-pull-22](https://github.com/input-output-hk/cardano-mainnet/pull/22)

### Ouroborous-network-ops
* Deploys cardano-node to `9.2.0`. Converts all relevant cluster resources and
  machines to ipv4/6 dual-stack operations. Updates alerts and dashboards for
  the new tracing system to reflect metrics name changes and legacy metric
  prefix normalization. More detail is available in the PR description:
  [ouroborous-network-ops-18](https://github.com/input-output-hk/ouroboros-network-ops/pull/18)
