---
title: SRE Team Update
slug: 2024-12-20-sre
authors: johnalotoski
tags: [sre]
hide_table_of_contents: false
---

## High level summary

The SRE team continues work on Cardano environment improvements and general maintenance.

Some notable recent changes, updates or improvements include:

* Nixpkgs has been updated to `24.11` across all environments

* Nix has been updated to `2.25.3` across all environments

* TCP tuning was applied on one relay per pool group across all environments to
  minimize round-tripping across long distances.

* This is the last SRE update for 2024.  Hello 2025!

## Repository Work

### Cardano-parts
* Nixpkgs has been updated to `24.11` and nix to `2.25.3`. NixosModules and
  template just recipes with breaking changes from those updates were fixed. A
  nix jobs GHA CI test was added to verify environment spin up procedure.
  Template scripts were updated for compatibility with latest cardano-node
  protocol version and recent cardano-cli breaking changes. More details are
  available in the release notes:
  [cardano-parts-release-v2024-12-19](https://github.com/input-output-hk/cardano-parts/releases/tag/v2024-12-19)

### Cardano-playground
* Nixpkgs has been updated to `24.11` and nix to `2.25.3` and all machines
  deployed along with breaking changes fixes. A fund-transfer recipe was added
  along with other miscellaneous improvements. More detail is available in the PR
  description:
  [cardano-playground-pull-38](https://github.com/input-output-hk/cardano-playground/pull/38)

### Cardano-mainnet
* Nixpkgs has been updated to `24.11` and nix to `2.25.3` and all machines deployed
  along with breaking changes fixes. Bootstrap scaling servers were disabled and
  block producer auto scheduled restarts were stopped. TCP transmission
  optimization for long distances was applied to one relay per pool group. More
  detail is available in the PR description:
  [cardano-mainnet-pull-28](https://github.com/input-output-hk/cardano-mainnet/pull/28)

### Iohk-nix
* Tunes the target number of p2p established peers
  [iohk-nix-pull-591](https://github.com/input-output-hk/iohk-nix/pull/591)
