---
title: SRE Team Update
slug: 2024-10-04-sre
authors: johnalotoski
tags: [sre]
hide_table_of_contents: false
---

## High level summary

The SRE team continues work on Cardano environment improvements and general maintenance.

Some notable recent changes, updates or improvements include:

* All environments have been upgraded to cardano-node `9.2.1`.

* Cardano-faucet `9.2` is available and deployed which is compatible with node
  `9.2.x` and has fixed ipv6 functionality.

* All deployed machines now default to nix `2.24-maint` after an upstream bug
  causing a hash miscalculation in submodules has been fixed.  Nix `2.21`
  forward required some rework of the colmena deployment recipes as dirty git
  trees now force an impure colmena deployment.

* To ease the process of upgrading cardano-parts,
  [releases](https://github.com/input-output-hk/cardano-parts/releases) will
  now be made instead of only PR merges with migration notes.

## Repository Work

### Cardano-faucet
* Binds ipv6 interface in addition to ipv4, parses and logs all ips to a
  unified ipv6 format and applies hlint and fmt updates.
  [cardano-faucet-pull-14](https://github.com/input-output-hk/cardano-faucet/pull/14)

* Makes required changes for cardano-api `9.2.0.0` and `9.3.0.0`,  removes void
  type sig constraints, bumps haskellNix, CHaP, cardano-api -> `9.3.0.0` for
  node `9.2.x` compatibility. Disables mingw32 builds until alex in current
  haskellNix pin is updated.
  [cardano-faucet-pull-15](https://github.com/input-output-hk/cardano-faucet/pull/15)

### Cardano-parts
* Sets cardano-node to `9.2.1`, cardano-faucet to `9.2`. Bumps nix to `2.24-maint`
  and adds ipv6 and nix versioning fixes and other improvements. Begins
  cardano-parts date-based releases for an improved upgrade process.
  Adds misc fixes and improvements. More detail is available in
  the release notes:
  [cardano-parts-release-v2024-10-07](https://github.com/input-output-hk/cardano-parts/releases/tag/v2024-10-07)

### Cardano-playground
* Deploys cardano-node to `9.2.1`, cardano-faucet to `9.2`. Bumps nix to `2.24-maint`
  and adds ipv6 and nix versioning fixes and other improvements.  Adds a wip
  node pparams api server. More detail is available in the PR description:
  [cardano-playground-pull-33](https://github.com/input-output-hk/cardano-playground/pull/33)

### Cardano-mainnet
* Deploys cardano-node to `9.2.1`, bumps nix to `2.24-maint` and adds ipv6 and
  nix versioning fixes and other improvements. Converts bootstraps to a new
  cached-index-patch branch and upgrades CF canary sql queries. More detail is
  available in the PR description:
  [cardano-mainnet-pull-23](https://github.com/input-output-hk/cardano-mainnet/pull/23)
