---
title: SRE Team Update
slug: 2024-05-24-sre
authors: johnalotoski
tags: [sre]
hide_table_of_contents: false
---

## High level summary

The SRE team continues work on cardano environment improvements and general
environment maintenance.

Some notable recent changes, updates or improvements include:

* Sanchonet was respun for cardano-node `8.11.0-pre`

* Private chain was respun twice for pre-sancho respin testing and short epoch
  testing with cardano-node `8.11.0-pre`

* Shelley-qa, two-thirds of preview and one-third of preprod networks were
  deployed to cardano-node `8.11.0-pre`

* Sanchonet, private chain and shelley-qa networks had dbsync `sancho-4-3-0`
  deployed

* A dbsync `show_current_forging` prepared statement was added to the
  cardano-parts `profile-cardano-postgres` nixosModule to aid with debugging
  chain quality issues

* Three documents were added to cardano-playground to better explain some
  operations procedures: KES rotation, chain quality debugging and new network
  creation. Found at:
  [docs/explain](https://github.com/input-output-hk/cardano-playground/tree/main/docs/explain)

* A new mithril dashboard template is available in cardano-parts

## Lower level summary

### Capkgs:
* Avoid git API rate limit errors on update github action via netrc usage and
  corresponding secret:
  [capkgs-commit](https://github.com/input-output-hk/capkgs/commit/1f3bf0a49e79d71d593f7de80ed783e5e2cb7053)

### Cardano-parts
* Sets cardano-node-ng to `8.11.0-pre` and cardano-db-sync-ng to `sancho-4-3-0`.
  Adds a dbsync prepared statement, mithril dashboard template, updates the
  node application dashboard template, improves justfile recipe templates and
  tunes some systemd dependencies. Iohk-nix-ng was updated for sanchonet and
  private chain respins. More detail is available in the PR description:
  [cardano-parts-pull-41](https://github.com/input-output-hk/cardano-parts/pull/41)

### Cardano-mainnet
* Rotates KES, pins iogp4 as `-ng`, adds a mithril dashboard, updates the node
  application dashboard, improves justfile recipes and tunes systemd node and
  mithril services to avoid some edge case errors. See the PR description for
  more details:
  [cardano-mainnet-pull-15](https://github.com/input-output-hk/cardano-mainnet/pull/15)

### Cardano-ogmios
* Build ogmios `v6.3.0` with nix:
  [cardano-ogmios-branch-compare](https://github.com/input-output-hk/cardano-ogmios/compare/main...ogmios-6-3-0)

### Cardano-playground
* Respins sancho and private chains and deploys cardano-node `8.11.0-pre` and
  cardano-db-sync `sancho-4-3-0` to appropriate envs and machines. Adds a mithril
  dashboard template, updates the node application dashboard template, improves
  justfile recipe templates. Adds three new explainer readme documents. See the
  PR description for more details:
  [cardano-playground-pull-24](https://github.com/input-output-hk/cardano-playground/pull/24)
