---
title: SRE Team Update
slug: 2024-11-01-sre
authors: johnalotoski
tags: [sre]
hide_table_of_contents: false
---

## High level summary

The SRE team continues work on Cardano environment improvements and general maintenance.

Some notable recent changes, updates or improvements include:

* Cardano-node \[pre-]releases from `10.0.0-pre`, `10.1.0-pre` and `10.1.1` were deployed to appropriate environments

* Sanchonet was respun on `2024-10-21` for cardano-node >= `10.0.0-pre`

* Private and shelley-qa chains were retired for now

* Remaining cardano-world legacy resources have now been terminated

* Some ci-world legacy resources were migrated in prep for termination of the remainder


## Repository Work

### Cardano-faucet
* Cardano-faucet was updated for cardano-node 10.1 compatibility.
  [cardano-faucet-pull-16](https://github.com/input-output-hk/cardano-faucet/pull/16)

### Cardano-parts
* Sets cardano-node to `10.1.1`, mithril to `v2442.0` and updates iohk-nix-ng for
  the recent sanchonet respin. Updates for cardano-cli breaking changes were
  incorporated into nix jobs, justfile recipes, bash and python scripts,
  process-compose processes. New template just recipes and psql prepared
  statements were added for ease of governance action pool voting and follow up
  vote analysis. Some nixosModule options were refactored for consistency across
  the module set. More detail is available in the release notes:
  [cardano-parts-release-v2024-11-06](https://github.com/input-output-hk/cardano-parts/releases/tag/v2024-11-06)

### Cardano-playground
* Sets cardano-node to `10.1.1`, mithril to `v2442.0`. Sanchonet was respun on
  `2024-10-21` and private and shelley-qa chains were retired. Breaking change
  fixes for cardano-cli were applied and new just recipes added. More detail is
  available in the PR description:
  [cardano-playground-pull-35](https://github.com/input-output-hk/cardano-playground/pull/35)

### Cardano-mainnet
* Sets cardano-node to `10.1.1`, mithril to `v2442.0`. Kes was rotated for block
  producers. Breaking change fixes for cardano-cli were applied and new just
  recipes added. More detail is available in the PR description:
  [cardano-mainnet-pull-25](https://github.com/input-output-hk/cardano-mainnet/pull/25)

### Iohk-nix
* Configuration changes for the sanchonet respin on `2024-10-21`
  [iohk-nix-pull-588](https://github.com/input-output-hk/iohk-nix/pull/588)
