---
title: SRE Team Update
slug: 2024-09-06-sre
authors: johnalotoski
tags: [sre]
hide_table_of_contents: false
---

## High level summary

The SRE team continues work on Cardano environment improvements and general maintenance.

Some notable recent changes, updates or improvements include:

* Mainnet was hard forked to Conway era!

* Legacy mainnet relays from cardano-ops cluster were stopped and retired.

* Legacy cardano-explorer hosted at explorer.cardano.org was retired with
  landing page and beta explorer services now provided by Cardano Foundation.

* Cardano-smash production load was cutover from the legacy cardano-world
  cluster to the replacement cardano-mainnet cluster.  Remaining cardano-world
  resources will be retired in the near future.

* Cardano-faucet was updated for cardano-node `9.1.x` level compatibility.


## Repository Work

### Cardano Faucet
* Brings faucet up to cardano-api and cardano-cli level of cardano-node `9.1`:
  bumps relevant flake pins, updates CHaP indexes, applies fixes for upstream
  breaking changes, removes cardano-addresses srp, adjusts ghc options, fixes
  ming32 CI builds, applies most hlint and fourmolu style and config
  suggestions respectively:
  [cardano-faucet-pull-12](https://github.com/input-output-hk/cardano-faucet/pull/12)

### Cardano Parts
* Sets cardano-node to `9.1.1`, cardano-db-sync to `13.5.0.2`, cardano-faucet to
  `9.1`. Adds alerts, dashboard fixes, nixos iowait optimization, smash and
  blockperf nixosModule improvements. More detail is available in the PR
  description:
  [cardano-parts-pull-47](https://github.com/input-output-hk/cardano-parts/pull/47)

### Cardano-mainnet
* Deploys cardano node to `9.1.1`, cardano-db-sync to `13.5.0.2`. Improves
  smash deployments and backup role for production load handling. Improvements
  made in cardano-parts PR#47 are included in this PR. More detail is available
  in the PR description:
  [cardano-mainnet-pull-21](https://github.com/input-output-hk/cardano-mainnet/pull/21)

### Cardano-playground
* Deploys cardano node to `9.1.1`, cardano-db-sync to `13.5.0.2`, cardano-faucet to
  `9.1`. Tests RTS parameter optimization and tracing system changes on preview
  network machines, tests `utxo-hd-9.1.1` on mainnet edge nodes. Improvements
  made in cardano-parts PR#47 are included in this PR. More detail is available
  in the PR description:
  [cardano-playground-pull-31](https://github.com/input-output-hk/cardano-playground/pull/31)

### Cardano-world
* Destroy retired legacy explorer metal machines and disable alerting:
  [commit-compare](https://github.com/IntersectMBO/cardano-world/compare/e9f9559...51f271a)
