---
title: SRE Team Update
slug: 2024-03-01-sre
authors: johnalotoski
tags: [sre]
hide_table_of_contents: false
---

## High level summary

The SRE team continues work on cardano environment improvements and general
environment maintenance.

Some notable recent changes, updates or improvements include:
* Cardano-node 8.8.1-pre is now deployed to sanchonet, two-thirds of preprod,
  one-third of preview and also voltaire private chain networks.

* Catalyst Voltaire private chain was respun and an updated db-sync and govtool
  backend deployed after hard fork to Conway era.

* IOG sanchonet pool block producers are now also signing mithril
  certificates.

* A mithril-signer-verifier service now runs on all IOG SRE mithril signers and
  generates alerts if no recent mithril certificates have been signed.

* All cardano-parts mithril clients, whether via nixosConfiguration,
  process-compose jobs or the nix cardano-node entrypoint, will now
  automatically verify that a trusted IOG pool has signed a mithril certificate
  prior to using the associated mithril state.  If no trusted IOG pool has
  signed a recent mithril certificate, mithril state usage with be skipped and
  a classic sync from genesis to tip will be performed.

* A significant amount of effort was applied towards the upcoming cardano-node
  8.9.x-pre release in order to align nixos service module code between
  cardano-node nixos services, iohk-nix topology generation, cardano-ops legacy
  code, and cardano-parts module compatibility.

## Lower level summary

### Work in progress
* The following PRs contain the mentioned work above and will be finalized and
  merged once cardano-node 8.9.x-pre or equivalent is tagged.  Summary details
  for each PR will be added in the next biweekly update once merged.
  * [cardano-parts-pull-34](https://github.com/input-output-hk/cardano-parts/pull/34)
  * [cardano-playground-pull-18](https://github.com/input-output-hk/cardano-playground/pull/18)
  * [cardano-mainnet-pull-9](https://github.com/input-output-hk/cardano-mainnet/pull/9)
