---
title: Large Reference Scripts
slug: 2024-09-11-incident
authors: kevinhammond
tags: [security,incident,consensus,ledger,plutus]
hide_table_of_contents: false
---

## Issue Caused by Large Reference Scripts on Cardano Mainnet

On 25th June 2025, a Cardano user inserted a series of transactions,
each containing 194 large reference scripts onto the mainnet chain,
funded from 3 wallets containing around 20K ada each.  High deserialisation
costs for these reference scripts impacted the node,
resulting in network disruption to block producer nodes, an increase
in network load, and some slowdown in transaction throughput. 

The direct effect lasted about 12 hours until it was stopped by a community member,
at a cost of 4603 ada to the user who had created the transactions. 
Overall, the network responded extemely well to the increased load,
showing a high level of resilience, with some reduction in transaction
throughput related to the overall high system load.  The community response to the
event was positive, praising the speed of response, the robustness
of the Cardano network, the cohesion of the Cardano community, and
its ability to diagnose and manage issues such as this.

### Mitigations Deployed

The general issue had already been identified, and a mitigation (costing for
reference scripts) had been prepared as part of the Chang hard fork,
but not yet deployed to mainnet. Based on the event, stronger
mitigations were prepared, including restricting large reference scripts,
and changing the cost model. These mitigations were deployed
via node versions 8.9.4, 8.12.1 or 8.12.2, and incorporated into node
version 9.0.0 or later for the Chang hard fork.

### Public Reports on the Incident

[Coindesk Report](https://www.coindesk.com/tech/2024/06/26/cardano-unfazed-by-failed-ddos-attack-targeting-staked-ada/)

[Nasdaq Report](https://www.nasdaq.com/articles/cardano-mitigates-ddos-attack)


