---
title: SRE Team Update
slug: 2024-03-29-sre
authors: johnalotoski
tags: [sre]
hide_table_of_contents: false
---

## High level summary

The SRE team continues work on cardano environment improvements and general
environment maintenance.

Some notable recent changes, updates or improvements include:
* Cardano-node 8.9.1 is now deployed to all environments.

* The legacy IOG mainnet metadata server has been retired with CF now providing
  metadata server services going forward.

* Cardano-parts PR#35, merged and linked below, offers ip information
  integration into nixosConfiguration modules as well as template-diff and
  template-patch recipes for easier upgrades going forward.


## Lower level summary

### Capkgs
* Adds a shortRev suffix to package names, fixes an rclone recipe, fixes a CI
  push action, defaults to recursively dereferenced object hashes, cleans up
  reference patterns.  See the PR description for more details:
  [capkgs-pull-2](https://github.com/input-output-hk/capkgs/pull/2)

### Cardano-mainnet
* Bumps to cardano-node 8.9.1 and deploys all machines, makes ip information
  available in nixosCfgs, adds new expected machine alerts, tunes snapshot
  alerts and implements all updates in cardano-parts PR#35.  See the PR
  description for more details:
  [cardano-mainnet-pull-10](https://github.com/input-output-hk/cardano-mainnet/pull/10)

### Cardano-ops
* Bumps to cardano-node 8.9.1, removes the legacy metadata server:
  [cardano-ops-commit](https://github.com/input-output-hk/cardano-ops/commit/5d4925b2fe825f28d72372c7b4b3d0fa0c514fd4)

### Cardano-parts
* Upgrades cardano-node to 8.9.1 for both release and pre-release, integrates
  machine ip information into nixosConfigurations, enables /etc/hosts file
  usage in cardano-node topology, enhances cardano-node topology producer
  generation with customizable address types, introduces template patching
  recipes for easier cardano-parts updates to existing clusters.  Much more
  detail is available in the PR description:
  [cardano-parts-pull-35](https://github.com/input-output-hk/cardano-parts/pull/35)

### Cardano-playground
* Bumps to cardano-node 8.9.1 and deploys all envs, rotates KES keys in most
  envs, makes ip information available in nixosCfgs and implements all updates
  in cardano-parts PR#35.  See the PR description for more details:
  [cardano-playground-pull-18](https://github.com/input-output-hk/cardano-playground/pull/18)
