---
title: SRE Team Update
slug: 2024-05-10-sre
authors: johnalotoski
tags: [sre]
hide_table_of_contents: false
---

## High level summary

The SRE team continues work on cardano environment improvements and general
environment maintenance.

Some notable recent changes, updates or improvements include:
* A preview of the new cardano tracing system is available by using the
  `profile-cardano-node-new-tracing` new nixosModule from cardano-parts and is
  complemented with new tracing system dashboards and alerts

* Custom cardano metrics can be pushed to a statsd server and then scraped to a
  monitoring solution using the `profile-cardano-custom-metrics` new
  nixosModule from cardano-parts

* A new cardano-parts job for spinning up clusters using a recent cardano-cli
  command, create-testnet-data, was implemented: `.#job-gen-custom-node-config-data`

## Lower level summary

### Cardano-faucet
* Cardano-faucet was upgraded to use the latest cardano-api and cardano-cli
  versions:
  [cardano-faucet-pull-10](https://github.com/input-output-hk/cardano-faucet/pull/10)

### Cardano-parts
* Sets cardano-faucet-ng to 8.10, and mithril\[-ng\] to 2418-1. A preview
  nixosModule for cardano-node's new tracing system has been added as well as a
  cardano custom-metrics module. Dashboards have been added for the new tracing
  system. Cardano-node alerts have been refactored into several rulesets which
  include some new alerts as well as new tracing system alerts. A job for
  spinning a cardano cluster up using a new underlying cardano-cli mechanism,
  create-testnet-data, was added. More detail is available in the PR description:
  [cardano-parts-pull-40](https://github.com/input-output-hk/cardano-parts/pull/40)

### Cardano-mainnet
* Sets mithril to 2418-1. Cardano-node alerts have been refactored into
  several rulesets which include some new alerts as well as new tracing system
  alerts. See the PR description for more details:
  [cardano-mainnet-pull-14](https://github.com/input-output-hk/cardano-mainnet/pull/14)

### Cardano-perf
* Cluster scaling changes and minor improvments to the perf machine cluster:
  [cardano-perf-compare](https://github.com/input-output-hk/cardano-perf/compare/3cce0de...5631a13)

### Cardano-playground
* Sets cardano-faucet-ng to 8.10 which fixes a sanchonet faucet instability, and
  mithril\[-ng\] to 2418-1. Adds a new cardano-node tracing system preview to some
  machines with corresponding dashboards. Cardano-node alerts have been
  refactored into several rulesets which include some new alerts as well as new
  tracing system alerts. A job for spinning a cardano cluster up using a new
  underlying cardano-cli mechanism, create-testnet-data, was added and integrated
  with the Justfile start-demo recipe. Includes other misc tuning and
  improvements. See the PR description for more details:
  [cardano-playground-pull-23](https://github.com/input-output-hk/cardano-playground/pull/23)
