---
title: SRE Team Update
slug: 2024-04-12-sre
authors: johnalotoski
tags: [sre]
hide_table_of_contents: false
---

## High level summary

The SRE team continues work on cardano environment improvements and general
environment maintenance.

Some notable recent changes, updates or improvements include:
* Private chain for Voltaire team was respun for cardano-node 8.10.0-pre
  pre-release and re-hard forked into Conway era.

* Sanchonet was respun for cardano-node 8.10.0-pre pre-release and re-hard
  forked into Conway era.

* Cardano-node 8.10.0-pre was also deployed to one-third of IOGs preprod
  environment nodes and two-thirds of IOGs preview environment nodes.

## Lower level summary

### Cardano-parts
* Sets cardano-node|cli-ng to 8.10.0-pre, dbsync-ng to sancho-4.1.0; bumps
  nixpkgs (23.11) and nixpkgs-unstable; improves, adds new and fixes a number
  of just recipes; allows repo custom recipes to be kept as a separate import
  for easy justfile maintenance; refactors ip module checking into its own
  nixosModule and adds an extra abort option for safety. Much more detail is
  available in the PR description:
  [cardano-parts-pull-36](https://github.com/input-output-hk/cardano-parts/pull/36)

### Cardano-mainnet
* Bumps cardano-parts for a number of recipe additions, improvements, fixes.
  Fixes blockperf dnsmasq looksups and adjusts colmena topology code to account
  for intra-cluster localRoots now defaulting to trustable true and implements
  all updates in cardano-parts PR#36.  See the PR description for more details:
  [cardano-mainnet-pull-11](https://github.com/input-output-hk/cardano-mainnet/pull/11)

### Cardano-perf
* Add a new perf-ssd machine class and deployment for ssd related performance
  testing and benchmarking.  Add new just recipes and cluster resource tagging.
  [cardano-perf-compare](https://github.com/input-output-hk/cardano-perf/compare/19a7ddd...a6a9b39)

### Cardano-playground
* Bumps cardano-parts for a number of recipe additions, improvements, fixes,
  and node 8.10.0-pre. Respins private chain and sanchonet for node 8.10.0-pre
  with corresponding book updates and implements all updates in cardano-parts
  PR#36.  See the PR description for more details:
  [cardano-playground-pull-20](https://github.com/input-output-hk/cardano-playground/pull/20)

### Iohk-nix
* WIP: Prepares block producer configurations to accomodate upcoming peerSharing default change:
  [iohk-nix-pull-575](https://github.com/input-output-hk/iohk-nix/pull/575)

* Provides iohk-nix updates for node 8.10:
  [iohk-nix-pull-576](https://github.com/input-output-hk/iohk-nix/pull/576)

