---
title: SRE Team Update
slug: 2024-08-23-sre
authors: johnalotoski
tags: [sre]
hide_table_of_contents: false
---

## High level summary

The SRE team continues work on Cardano environment improvements and general maintenance.

Some notable recent changes, updates or improvements include:

* The preprod network was hard forked to Conway era.

* The nixosModule `profile-blockperf` in cardano-parts now includes prometheus
  metrics, automatically scraped with grafana-agent along with a dashboard.

* A nixosModule `profile-tcpdump` in cardano-parts is now available to push
  on-going pcaps to s3 for historical reference.

* Old dev environments were cleaned up and retired after the completion of the
  `ouroboros-network-ops` cluster migration to the `cardano-parts` stack.

* Causes of blockperf indicated mainnet relay delayed block headers were
  investigated and improved with adjustments to RTS parameters and machine
  class.

* Conway-era mempool log volume increase was investigated and resolved with
  `ouroboros-network` improvements.

* Scaling capability was added to the cardano-mainnet bootstrap cluster.


## Repository Work

### Cardano Parts
* Sets cardano-db-sync (release) to 13.4.0.0. Includes nixosModule improvements
  to cardano-db-sync snapshots module with a manual trigger, blockperf module
  new prom metrics, grafana-agent module with auto-blockperf scrape config and
  a new tcpdump module for persistent pcaps to s3. Recipe improvements for
  configuration consistency checking and openTofu improved AMI and DNS
  filtering have been made. The AWS machine reference spec has been updated and
  one alert tuned for better sensitivity. More detail is available in the PR
  description:
  [cardano-parts-pull-46](https://github.com/input-output-hk/cardano-parts/pull/46)

### Cardano-mainnet
* Deploys cardano-db-sync (release) to 13.4.0.0. Deploys nixosModule
  improvements for cardano-db-sync snapshots module with a manual trigger,
  blockperf module with new prom metrics, grafana-agent module with
  auto-blockperf scrape config and a new tcpdump module for persistent pcaps to
  s3. Recipes improvements for configuration consistency checking and openTofu
  improved AMI and DNS filtering have been made. Makes changes to pool group
  relays to eliminate or reduce delayed block headers. Tests additional dev
  patches for missingBlock errors. Adds bootstrap cluster scaling capability
  and a bootstrap cluster dashboard. Improvements made in cardano-parts PR#46
  are included in this PR. More detail is available in the PR description:
  [cardano-mainnet-pull-20](https://github.com/input-output-hk/cardano-mainnet/pull/20)

### Cardano-ops (Legacy Mainnet)
* Over a two week period the legacy relay nodes were scaled down 50% further from the recent machine quantity peak.
  [commit-compare](https://github.com/input-output-hk/cardano-ops/compare/825d35c...6955150)

### Cardano-playground
* Preprod was hard-forked to Conway. Deploys cardano-db-sync to `13.4.0.0`.
  Recipe improvements for configuration consistency checking and openTofu
  improved AMI and DNS filtering have been made. Improvements made in
  cardano-parts PR#46 are included in this PR. More detail is available in the PR
  description:
  [cardano-playground-pull-30](https://github.com/input-output-hk/cardano-playground/pull/30)

### Cardano-world
* Updates openssh to 9.8p1 on remaining cardano-world (soon-to-be-retired) cluster machines
  [commit](https://github.com/IntersectMBO/cardano-world/commit/e9f9559f1263d32224d3b8d13a8e3b5f771440dc)
