---
title: SRE Team Update
slug: 2025-10-24-sre
authors: johnalotoski
tags: [sre]
hide_table_of_contents: false
---

## High level summary

The SRE team continues work on Cardano environment improvements and general maintenance.

Some notable recent changes, updates or improvements include:

* IOE participated in a community driven Sanchonet network chain disaster
recovery test event to purposely break Sanchonet and recover by mechanisms and
tools discussed in [CIP-0135](https://cips.cardano.org/cip/CIP-0135) including
`db-truncater` and `db-synthesizer`.

* Faster test deployment iteration of a `10.6.0` pre-release candidate is
underway to some preview and preprod testnet machine deployments with a tight
feedback loop between SRE and dev team for observations and debugging when
issues are found.

* A new `cardano-tracer` OCI container will be provided with the upcoming
`10.6.0` pre-release now that the new tracing system will be default.

* SRE team facilitated the passage of a [governance action](https://preview.cardanoscan.io/govAction/gov_action1d8y53n0fp34e6ltpt90g2dxpqmkygyevkpy6kf2c8xwmzfsvra5sq3c8rpt)
on the preview network, soon to be submitted to preprod and likely followed by a mainnet proposal and full community vote.

* SRE team has begun providing some additional support to the Midnight Scavenger Mine
project as needed until the Scavenger Mine phase completes.


## Repository Work -- Merged

### Cardano-node
* This PR includes various SRE related changes for `10.6.0` pre-release readiness:
  * Bumps iohk-nix for config updates from iohk-nix PR#602
  * Fixes configuration change related CI checks.
  * Merges bp and non-bp configurations into a single config whereby ouroboros-network now automatically determines PeerSharing and Target* parameters which previously required being explicitly declared.
  * The new tracing system is now set as the default configuration; the legacy tracing system config is still made available.
  * The mainnet default topology configuration now includes a peerSnapshot declaration for making testing of GenesisMode more convenient.
  * Adjusts OCI containers for the new config setups and also includes peer-sharing configs for each network
  * Updates the nixos cardano-node service for the deprecation of useNewTopology given P2P is now the only networking mode as of `10.6.0`.
  * Updates the nixos cardano-node service for new tracerSocketNetworkAccept and tracerSocketNetworkConnect cardano-tracer connection options.
  * Updates the nixos cardano-node service to support SRV peer records.
  * Updates the nixos cardano-tracer service for option name changes of acceptingSocket to acceptAt and connectingToSocket to connectTo; related workbench services were also updated accordingly.
  * For the binary releases, the cardano-submit-api config and peer-sharing config was added.
  * The default cardano-submit-api config was made compatible with the new tracing system.

  [cardano-node-pr-6300](https://github.com/IntersectMBO/cardano-node/pull/6300)


## Repository Work In Progress -- PRs and Branches

* Cardano-mainnet: https://github.com/input-output-hk/cardano-mainnet/pull/39
* Cardano-parts: https://github.com/input-output-hk/cardano-parts/pull/74
* Cardano-playground: https://github.com/input-output-hk/cardano-playground/pull/51
* Iohk-nix: https://github.com/input-output-hk/iohk-nix/pull/602

