---
title: SRE Team Update
slug: 2025-01-17-sre
authors: johnalotoski
tags: [sre]
hide_table_of_contents: false
---

## High level summary

The SRE team continues work on Cardano environment improvements and general maintenance.

Some notable recent changes, updates or improvements include:

* Sanchonet was respun after a community scheduled test hardfork to PV11

* Buildkite agent modules were added to cardano-playground

* Adds a latest tag GHA action to cardano-node upon new release publication

## Repository Work

### Cardano-parts
* Cardano-node has been updated to `10.1.4`, cardano-cli and the -ng variant to
  `10.1.1.0` and `10.2.0.0` respectively, and mithril to `v2450`. Colmena has
  been updated to utilize a new pure flake evaluation approach. New nix jobs were
  added for a new "next-gen" network spin up method, which supports network
  creation with a fork directly to Conway and then retirement of the genesis
  bootstrap pool in favor of on-chain registered backbone pools. CI tests to
  support these new jobs were added. The recipe to query governance actions was
  updated with the latest voting calculations and the output was improved with
  color and additional reporting totals. A psql prepared statement for voting
  activity over time was added to the postgres module. Other small miscellaneous
  improvements and clean up were made with details available in the release
  notes:
  [cardano-parts-release-v2025-01-17](https://github.com/input-output-hk/cardano-parts/releases/tag/v2025-01-17)

### Cardano-playground
* Cardano-node has been updated to `10.1.4`, mithril to `v2450` and all envs
  deployed. Buildkite modules were added to support fast buildkite agent scaling
  in any AWS region. Sanchonet was respun after a planned community hard fork test.
  The recipe to query governance actions was updated with the latest voting
  calculations. A new `start-demo-ng` recipe was added to utilize a new
  "next-gen" spin up method. More detail is available in the PR description:
  [cardano-playground-pull-39](https://github.com/input-output-hk/cardano-playground/pull/39)

### Cardano-mainnet
* Cardano-node has been updated to `10.1.4` and mithril to `v2450` and all machines
  deployed. The mainnet canary dashboard was updated with a governance voting
  analysis panel. The recipe to query governance actions was updated with the
  latest voting calculations. More detail is available in the PR description:
  [cardano-mainnet-pull-29](https://github.com/input-output-hk/cardano-mainnet/pull/29)

### Cardano-node
* Adds GHA steps to push a latest tag for node and api containers on release
  events where the tag is the latest release. Updates the docker-compose to
  default to the latest tag and bumps iohk-nix for an updated target number of
  established peers. Fixes related configs to pass CI checks.
  [cardano-node-pull-6057](https://github.com/IntersectMBO/cardano-node/pull/6057)
